Hi we're here at Windy Lake Provincial Park and I'm with Ryan. We're going cross-country...
Skiing!
See what this park has to offer.
You know Doug, Windy Lake is known for its beaches and its waterfront fun, but one of
the coolest things actually takes place in
the winter. Windy Lake is home to 15 kilometres
of world-class ski trails that are track-set
and professionally groomed. We're standing
in them right now. We're standing in them
right now. One of the other cool things, Doug,
I should tell you is that it's home to three-time Olympic athlete
and 2012 World Champion Devon Kershaw.
Devon Kershaw is from here?
Yeah, home club, pretty cool. When the snow flies
The park partners with the Onaping Falls Nordic Ski Club. They've been around for forty years here.
So Ryan if I'm a beginner, you know, which is pretty obvious nowadays, is this a good
spot for me to start from? Actually, yeah.
They have classic-style skiing and they have
skate skiing which can take you from absolute amateur to actual - Olympian - Olympic Champion
Yeah.
Ryan, where have you taken us to now?
Well Doug we just happen to be standing on the edge of a meteorite crater.
Right here?
Right here.
Over two billion years ago, a meteorite almost 15 kilometres across impacted the Earth and
went almost 15 kilometres down into it, and created a crater that was 250 kilometres wide.
When the meteorite struck, the shockwaves created what's called shatter cones. And on
your drive up to Windy Lake Provincial Park you can actually see some of those representations
at the A.Y. Jackson lookout in the summertime, and in the wintertime, you can stop in at Science North.
That's incredible. And we're standing on the edge of it?
We're standing on the edge of it.
So Doug we've seen a lot of cool things in
the park, but one of the cooler things is
definitely our winter camping yurts. But what makes it the coolest thing is that you can ski right to it.
So our yurts have an electric heater, an electric light, it sleeps six people, you have a large
deck, a BBQ, a fire pit, and a winter heated
privy.
You have your world-class ski trails out the front door, you have snowshoe trails out the
back door, the lake down the hill for ice
fishing -- it's just all right there for your taking.
You've got everything you need right there
You've got everything there and it'san absolute wonderful place to be.
Excellent.
Hey Doug, have you seen my hat?
What's that Ryan?
My hat, have you seen my hat?
No!
My precious...